zlot thanks very much indeed for joining
us uh Palestine ambassador to the United
Kingdom first up so more than uh 600
Israelis dead more than 300 Palestinians
dead we're only 48 hours in into this
assault do you uh support this operation
by Hamas which it would seem it's only
heading one in one direction that is
more death more injury more destruction
particularly to gazans young and
old hello Nick uh this is the wrong
question really uh uh the the the right
question and allow me is do I support my
people's quest for the last 100 years
for Liberation and for ending this
occupation and for their very legitimate
rights of self-determination and return
Yes um do I understand the International
position no I don't and I think uh we
need to discuss that first and foremost
history did not begin only 48 hours ago
in Gaza and around Gaza history began
here in fact in this very Capital 106
years ago when Britain with the US and
the West decided to give away our land
without consulting us the Belford
declaration denying us even the
definition of people's hood and
nationhood in the bord Declaration it
was declared that we were the non-jewish
minorities when in fact we were more
than
96% of the population owning the
majority the vast majority of the land
and then it continued during the British
Mandate of Palestine they were committed
contractually with the League of Nations
to prepare us for statehood and then
again they denied us our right of
stimation and statehood and until this
very day and hearing your correspondent
just earlier the West continues to do
the very same denial that the
Palestinians have equal rights complete
siding with Israel and absolutely what
we are going to witness in the coming
hours and days is going to be heinous uh
mass murder will occur Netanyahu has
already declared to the world that he
will Target civilians he will wipe Gaza
off uh uh the map and the question that
we needs to be concerned with right now
is how do we stop this how do we stop
the bleeding how do we stop further
further illegalities and violations
think do you think down the line down
the line given the number of Israeli
casualties so far that that will could
actually uh Inspire there to be greater
International effort to finally try and
get some sort of resolution to
this
I hope so I hope this is a wake up call
I hope this was a serious alarm uh in
all of our heads all over the world I
hope the West will understand that by
giving Israel this card blanch impunity
Above the Law the exception of every
rule things will not do by trying to
bypass the Palestinian issue as happened
for the last so many years nobody is
interested we signed as you know 30
years ago the oso Accords we committed
uh to all the commitment ments of the
Accords including negotiations and
international resolution and the world
told told us the US LED International
Community they will deliver the
two-state solution the world did not
lift a hand throughout the last 30 years
when Israel made mockery of all these
agreements and all International
provisions and U uh resolutions what I
am trying to say this is an opportunity
for everybody to understand that the
Palestinian people are ain't going
anywhere that the Palestinian people
have the right to defend themselves that
the Palestinian people for a 100 years
now and for another 100 if it needs to
be will continue struggling for their
legitimate rights and you seen Trump and
the the trying of liquidation of
Palestinian statehood nationhood
self-determination you've seen the
dissipation and you've seen the uh uh
undermining of even the talk even the
talk of a Palestinian State over the
last years and therefore this is an
opportunity to remind everybody there is
no way around this neck there is no way
around this Israel's occupation has got
to end a Palestinian Sovereign
independent state with East Jerusalem as
its capital has got to be established
the millions of Palestinian refugees
have non-negotiable rights to return to
their homes properties lands and of
course uh Israel has got to respect uh
all these rights now how do we do so by
one simple word equal application of
international
law in the immediate future stivity in
the immediate
future when we're talking about what's
about to happen and what needs to happen
to to stop it getting worse we're
hearing that Egypt is involved in some
small way IM mediation in trying to uh
get people those some of those taken
back home what about the broader
mediation that is required here to stop
this before it gets as bad as it looks
like it's going to
get well we need three steps the first
step is immediate session of hostility
by by Israel and all these warnings and
that's why we together with our Arab
brothers and sisters called for a
security Council uh uh meeting so the
security Council takes its
responsibility that's why it's there and
was established uh to resolve conflicts
and to enforce international law the
second thing Israel needs to be reminded
by the International Community that even
as an occupying power it has
responsibilities absolute clear
responsibilities the first is to the
protection of civilians under the
military occupation not targeting them
as we have seen in the last few hours in
Gaza destroying uh total residential
compounds so the application of
international law until we get to the
third stage when the world comes not
just the US everyone comes like all
other conflicts and resolve it based on
the global consensus enough of
considering Israel you know the
exception of playing political
footballing as I had yesterday in
Washington of competing politicians in
the UK and Europe who supports Israel
more of this dehumanization of the
Palestinian people and the Palestinian
struggle and every interview I've done
in the last day or two there is such an
attempt to B us in a certain Corner uh
that uh we are the ones who should be
condemned we are the ones who always the
instigator when in fact Nick the
military occupation the colonization the
apartheid is the only instigator of of
violence is the only instigator of all
the reactions that you have seen so this
is an opportunity to call a spade a
spade this is an opportunity to focus on
the root causes and this is not an
opportunity just to B bandages because
this is what the world has been doing
managing the conflict rather than
resolving it palestin ambassador to the
United Kingdom appreciate your time
thank you